# SegPC-2021

## Transformer Assisted Convolutional Neural Network for Cell Instance Segmentation

Region proposal based methods like R-CNN and Faster R-CNN models have proven to be extremely successful in object detection and segmentation tasks.  Of late, Transformers have also gained popularity in the domain of Computer Vision, and are being utilised to improve the performance of conventional models.
In this paper, we present a relatively new transformer based approach to enhance the performance of conventional convolutional feature extractors by merging them with transformer-based tokens embedding, by applying a projection operation similar to self-attention in transformers. Using a Vision Transformer(ViT) based transformer encoder along with the convolutional encoders, we managed to get a significant improvement in mIoU (mean Intersection over Union) scores compared to vanilla convolutional backbones. We finally create an ensemble of the vanilla and transformer-assisted variants of these networks to obtain an mIoU of __0.9356__ in the validation phase and __0.9382__ in the test phase of the SegPC-2021 Cell segmentation challenge, securing second and third positions in the two phases respectively.

## Dataset
 he dataset provided for this challenge consists of microscopic images that were captured from bone marrow aspirate slides of patients diagnosed with MM, and cell instance masks for each image corresponding to the malignant cells present in the image. The slides for capturing the images were stained with the help of Jenner-Giemsa stain..The dataset comprises of images in two shapes, ( 2040 X 1536 ) and (1920 X 2560), depending on the hardware used to take these images.Corresponding to the three phases of the competition the overall dataset was released in three sets: training set (298 images),validation set(200 images) and testing set(277 images). For the purpose of evaluating the models trained during the first phase, we formed a holdout set which consisted of 15% images from the training set and a similar holdout set was formed after combining the training and validation set during the second phase of the competition.
